---
title: About
---

Hi, my name is Jan Frederik Hake. I am a software developer from Dortmund / Germany. 

I've been coding for years on different topics.
I prefer do work as a full stack engineer, because every part of an application has its challenge and its charm. 

I have been working on / with

* clustered relational databases with hundreds of tables and thousands of stored procedures
* code bases with millions of lines of code
* [brownfield](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownfield_(software_development)) projects / products
* document based database systems with millions of documents and terabytes in size
* [extjs](http://www.sencha.com/products/extjs/) based web applications

This is my personal blog, where I write about programming, infrastructure and own ideas. 
I start with some simple pages and let this blog grow as needed.

You can contact me via <jan_hake@gmx.de>, [xing](https://www.xing.com/profile/JanFrederik_Hake), [github](https://github.com/enter-haken) or [twitter](https://www.twitter.com/enter_haken)

# Disclosures pursuant to §5 TMG (German law).

Since I am a German citizen, I am obligated to make disclosures pursuant to §5 TMG (German law).

## Address

    Jan Frederik Hake
    Bergstraße 39
    44339 Dortmund

## Contact

    Phone: +49 (0) 151 74308676 
    E-Mail: jan_hake@gmx.de

## Responsible for the content according to § 55 Abs. 2 RStV (German law):

    Jan Frederik Hake
    Bergstraße 39
    44339 Dortmund

## Liability for links

My web site contains links to third party websites. I can't give guarantees for the content of this external source. The respective provider or operator of the pages is always responsible for the contents of the linked pages. The linked pages were checked for possible legal violations at the time of linking. If I become aware of any legal infringements, I will immediately remove such links.

## Disclaimer Google Analytics

This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. (“Google”). Google Analytics uses “cookies”, which are text files placed on your computer, to help the website analyze how users use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States. In case of activation of the IP anonymization, Google will truncate/anonymize the last octet of the IP address for Member States of the European Union as well as for other parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. Only in exceptional cases, the full IP address is sent to and shortened by Google servers in the USA. On behalf of the website provider Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage to the website provider. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser. However, please note that if you do this, you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website. Furthermore you can prevent Google’s collection and use of data (cookies and IP address) by downloading and installing the browser plug-in available under [https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en-GB](https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en-GB)

You can also prevent the collection by Google Analytics by clicking on the following link. An opt-out cookie will be set which prevents the future collection of your data when visiting this website:

<p style="text-align:center">
<a href="javascript:optOut();">deactivate Google Analytics</a>
</p>

<script>
    function optOut() {
        var gaProperty = 'UA-109218061-1';
        var disableString = 'ga-disable-' + gaProperty;
 
        document.cookie = disableString + '=true; expires=Thu, 31 Dec 2099 23:59:59 UTC; path=/';
        window[disableString] = true;
        alert('Google Analytics has been deactivated');
    }
</script>
